OSDOCS-11905: Add GCP Workload Identity OLM/CCO docs (#81381)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/osdk-cco-gcp-enabling.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * operators/operator_sdk/osdk-token-auth/osdk-cco-gcp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="osdk-cco-gcp-enabling_{context}"]
= Enabling Operators to support CCO-based workflows with {gcp-wid-short}

As an Operator author designing your project to run on Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM), you can enable your Operator to authenticate against {gcp-wid-first} on {product-title} clusters by customizing your project to support the Cloud Credential Operator (CCO).

> With this method, the Operator is responsible for creating the `CredentialsRequest` object, which means the Operator requires RBAC permission to create these objects. Then, the Operator must be able to read the resulting `Secret` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this method, the Operator is responsible for creating the `CredentialsRequest` object, which means the Operator requires RBAC permission to create these objects. The Operator must also be able to read the resulting `Secret` object.
```

> With this method, the Operator is responsible for creating the `CredentialsRequest` object, which means the Operator requires RBAC permission to create these objects. Then, the Operator must be able to read the resulting `Secret` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this method, the Operator is responsible for creating the `CredentialsRequest` object and reading the resulting `Secret` object. To create the `CredentialRequest` object the Operator must have RBAC permission.
```

Author: Went with:
```
With this method, the Operator is responsible for and requires RBAC permissions for creating the `CredentialsRequest` object and reading the resulting `Secret` object.
```

        - credentialsrequests
        verbs:
        - create
        - delete
        - get
        - list
        - patch
        - update
        - watch
----
====

.. Add the following annotation to claim support for this method of CCO-based workflow with {gcp-wid-short}:
+
[source,yaml]
----
# ...
metadata:
 annotations:
   features.operators.openshift.io/token-auth-gcp: "true"
----

. Update your Operator project code:

.. Get the `audience` and the `serviceAccountEmail` values from the environment variables set on the pod by the subscription config:
+
[source,go]
----
 // Get ENV var
   audience := os.Getenv("AUDIENCE")
   serviceAccountEmail := os.Getenv("SERVICE_ACCOUNT_EMAIL")
   gcpIdentityTokenFile := "/var/run/secrets/openshift/serviceaccount/token"
----

.. Ensure you have a `CredentialsRequest` object ready to be patched and applied.
+
[NOTE]
====
Adding a `CredentialsRequest` object to the Operator bundle is not currently supported.
====

.. Add the {gcp-wid-short} variables to the credentials request and apply it during Operator initialization:
+
.Example applying `CredentialsRequest` object during Operator initialization
[%collapsible]
====
[source,go]
----

> // apply credentialsRequest on install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// apply CredentialsRequest on install
```

   credReqTemplate.Spec.GCPProviderSpec.Audience = audience
   credReqTemplate.Spec.GCPProviderSpec.ServiceAccountEmail = serviceAccountEmail
   credReqTemplate.CloudTokenPath = gcpIdentityTokenFile

   c := mgr.GetClient()
   if err := c.Create(context.TODO(), credReq); err != nil {
       if !errors.IsAlreadyExists(err) {
           setupLog.Error(err, "unable to create CredRequest")
           os.Exit(1)
       }
   }
----
====

.. Ensure your Operator can wait for a `Secret` object to show up from the CCO, as shown in the following example, which is called along with the other items you are reconciling in your Operator:
+
.Example wait for `Secret` object
[%collapsible]
====
[source,go]
----

> // WaitForSecret is a function that takes a Kubernetes client, a namespace, and a v1 "k8s.io/api/core/v1" name as arguments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// WaitForSecret is a function that takes a Kubernetes client, a namespace, and a v1 "k8s.io/api/core/v1" name as arguments.
```

> // It waits until the secret object with the given name exists in the given namespace

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// It waits until the secret object with the given name exists in the given namespace.
```

> // It returns the secret object or an error if the timeout is exceeded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// It returns the secret object or an error if the timeout is exceeded.
```
